# Unsupervised Learning with Haystacks.AI Real Estate Listings Data
The objective of this project is to optimize price prediction with Automated Valuation Models by clustering like datapoints. We begin with real estate listings in the state of Georgia, and we add various types of alternative data features. Among the data we merge with out real estate listings are: crime data (zip code level), walk score data (zip code level), distance to closest bank, distance to closest school, and distance to closest high quality grocer (for this exercise we include Whole Foods and Trader Joe's).

After cleaning and merging our data, we explore dimensionality reduction techniques on our numeric features (principal components analysis), our categorical features (multiple correspondence analysis), and the combined features (factor analysis of mixed data). Dimensionality reduction reveals that categorical features are not so useful, and so we proceed with our principal components derived from our numerical features only.

As a next step we use k-means clustering with our principal components to develop 3 clusters, in hopes that this will help us optimize our price prediction models. To test this, we map our clusters back to our original numerical features and fit a Random Forest Regression model separately to our 3 clusters and to our overall dataset. By averaging the performance of our prediction models across our 3 clusters, we observe that the models outperform the single model fit to the overall dataset.
